Now that we've learned how to add video to our apps we're going to see how to do the same with audio.
But this time we're going to take things a little bit further and actually show you how we can create
buttons to allow the user to interact with the audio directly and then we get full control over what
those buttons actually do.
So fairly straightforward but very powerful as well.
Let's start in the usual way by creating a new project
I'm going to call this sound demo
and then usual settings blank activity and all the defaults there.
While that's getting created Let's jump over to crame to download a sound file so you can use any sound
file you like for this but I'm going to get mine from sound Bible dot com.
And there's a huge range you can get all for free.
I've just selected the funny sounds there and we'll go for that.
The kids love one always good sir.
Very nice.
Warms your heart doesn't it.
So just click on the name of the sound effect.
You want to use and then I would recommend clicking on the MP3.
It's going to get annoying actually isn't it.
But that we have and then I'm just going to download mine to the desktop.
You might want to rename it to something simple.
I'm going to call mine loff
and then we can import that into our app.
We're now ready to go.
So you may remember from the last one that what we're going to do is to create a rez folder in the restful
that we're going to create a new directory called roll and that's where we're going to store and P3
file.
It doesn't appear there automatically but if you make it smaller and bigger again it should be there
it is fantastic so if you're on Windows you can just drag and drop your laugh or MP3 file straight in.
Unfortunately on Mac that doesn't work at the moment.
It's worth giving it a try because it may have been fixed in a later version of Android studio but if
like me that doesn't work for you you just need to drag and drop it in.
So we'll do that by control clicking or right clicking on the raw folder and then it's revealed in Finder.
And then just double click on it and drag laughter MP 3
right in that there we go.
And then sometimes will appear that automatically.
There you go.
It has now appeared.
If it doesn't just control click or right click and synchronize roll and then that will appear great.
So we've got I left to file in the app.
Now it's just a matter of playing it so we can do that with a couple of lines of code.
In main activity.
So first thing is as before we need to import
the media plan so import Android media Dopp media player.
There it is.
And then we can actually play the thing with just two lines of code.
So we're going to create a media play a variable using media Placide that's the type of the variable
that we're creating I'll call it and play a and we're going to create it using media player to create
it.
And I'm going to do things slightly differently this time.
We still need a context which as before is just this but this time I'm going to create it with the file
itself.
So I'm going to use dot roll to offer results is raw to get the revolver.
And then there it is.
LOF
So that creates the media play with that specific file and then to play it.
We need to do is type player don't start simple as that.
So now if we run that we should find that it creates the media play object and we get the lovely laughing
sound coming out of our app.
It we go I'm just going to choose that device and then run that
and wait for it.
There we go.
I hope you had that.
So that played on a.
I here this S&M app.
So now we've got sound up and running.
I'm going to give you a quick challenge and that is going to be to alter our app so that we have two
buttons.
One is play and the other is pause and instead of then playing the sound file the moment the app has
run it plays it every time the user clicks play.
And of course pause we want to pause the sound from playing.
Now I haven't shown you have to do pause before so you might need to do a quick bit of googling to try
and work out what the pause command is.
But I think you might be able to do that.
All right.
So maybe it's post video and give that a shot.
Good luck.
All right.
Well I'm going to jump over here first to activity in SML to add those buttons and let's just get rid
of locks for the moment.
So I'm just going to drag in two buttons.
Not interested in layout tool here.
So that one is going to be my play button.
So the idea to play button
and we'll update is
and then same with pause
pauses.
There we go hands.
I'm going to change the unclick
attribute t to.
Pause.
Woodier.
And then for the play button you might be surprised to hear that I'm going to call that play or.
Would say that's what we need here.
So let's jump back over to main activity Java and create our methods to play and was.
So let's play first went public void and then play Wardy And
and this is being called by a view which we'll call you which we know with the button but we don't really
care about.
And this is where we want to play the audio.
So the obvious thing would be to just take the code from there and pop it in there.
That will work but we'll then have some problems when we want to pause the audio.
So let's just see what happens if we want to create our pause
ODI method assignments before.
Now if you figured out what the post command is if I write that in him it turns out to be in play a
dot pause
simple enough.
If you didn't figure that out.
Shame on you.
But of course if we move that into here the play A variable is only defined in this method up here.
So what we're going to need to do is define the play a variable outside of these two methods.
Again that's simple enough.
I'm just going to take the bit of code that defines and play a variable and pop it right outside of
those two methods.
And then of course we don't need to define it again because it already exists.
So now we've got a global and play a variable which we can access anywhere in our code.
And just before we run that we just need to add Android don't the don't v.
Otherwise it won't pick up on those.
So you might be wondering exactly whether this is going to start and restart the order every time or
whether it's actually going to stop and then start again where it was before.
So maybe have a quick think about that and what you expect to happen and then we'll find out when we
run the apps.
First of all
put sound on my machine before I panic.
There we go.
OK so we've got our play button working.
And Paul was definitely works because the order had stopped
but the play button actually restarts.
So if I can make that clear for you I'll post it near the end but the play button actually restarts
it.
So we might have been able to anticipate that what we need today to fix it is to define
and play a variable or say what we want and play a variable to contain in the uncreate method.
So this will then create a media play with this particular sound file and then this just starts playback
and pauses playback.
So now we should get the behavior that we want to the pause button is actually pause rather than stop
which is what was happening.
Just now.
Well to be fair to the buttons it was a pause button.
It was the restarting that was actually setting it back to the beginning again.
Tell us take a look now.
There you go.
So hopefully you can hear the difference there.
If we now just play we only get the very last bit of the video.
Great.
So you could use that to create an effective stop button as well but you'd probably be better off using
the official player.
Don't stop if you wanted to actually stop the audio rather than pause it.
Great.
So we've created our audio player in the next video.
We're going to go on and create some more controls for this app.
Specifically we're going to add a volume control and a seek control which allows you to go to anywhere
in the piece of audio.
That's pretty much everything you need for an audio player app and it will also introduce us to the
slider or as they're known in Android.
They seek power which will allow the user to drag a point on a bar back and forth.
So they're very useful particularly in media players and we'll see how to use those in the next lecture.
You see.